This is not yet finished, but:

Wolfenstein 3D is an Id Software game.  This is a port of the Macintosh
version that was released by MacPlay in 1994.  You can find information about
the source release at: http://www.maccentral.com/news/0001/24.wolf3d.shtml 
WolfReadMe.txt, from that Mac Wolf3d source release, is also included with
this port.  This port is not supported by id Software.

Goals of this Project (Just what am I trying to do?):  Like the PC verison,
this game (I consider the PC and Mac versions as different games) was only 
available on a certain platform, The Macintosh.  I had ported the PC version
to Linux before, so when I found the source to the Macintosh version, I
thought "Why not?"  So here it is.  My goal is to implement everything the
Macintosh version had, and then somehow improve on that.

To use this, you need the resource fork from the First Encounter (the three
level shareware version) or the Second Encounter (the for-sell version). 
You can find the First Encounter on many web sites (Search for: Macintosh
Wolfenstein 3D download) and you can get the Second Encounter on eBay (I
believe it is no longer sold by Interplay, but I got my unopened copy from
eBay).

To get the resource fork from the shareware version, you need something that
can extract .sit files and then save resource forks TO A DIFFERENT FILE. 
There is a linux version of Alladin StuffIT Expander but I could not get it
to work; I had to use the Windows version -- which defaults to ignoring
resource forks.

If you have the Second Encounter on CD, then it is easy.  Just mount the Mac
CD and ".resource/Wolfenstein 3D:aa" is your resource fork (make sure you
have HFS support in the kernel (or load the module) and mount -t hfs
/dev/cdrom /cdrom.  Resource forks by default on HFS-mounted partitions in
Linux are kept seperately in .resource directories).

If the First/Second Encounter on some other sort of medium (such as .sit or on
disks) then I don't know how to get the resource fork -- you could try
something similiar to what was outlined above.

For comparison:
First  Encounter reosurce fork size: 1537319
md5sum: 0283e4ab0143ad47bd32db9bd686b0fa
Second Encounter resource fork size: 2441827 
md5sum: c5984ef902523430426a8976e1527742

(No, I won't send them to you... Getting them is part of the challenge!)

The Third Encounter is not supported by this code -- as far as I know, the
formats are totally different.

The current code does not check for the validity of a resource fork, but if
you get errors with LoadAResource2, then most likely the file is not a
resource fork.

Status of the port:

You can play the game, but not save, load, change difficulty, hear sounds
and music, use the mouse and joystics, and change window size.  View TODO for 
the specifics.

Specifically:
swolf3d : The SVGAlib Version.  Only supports 320x200x256 at the moment, so
only parts of the intro screens are shown (they are 512x384). [Actually
now you can use different resolutions, but I'm not sure how stable it is.]

xwolf3d : The Xlib Version.  Only supports 8bpp PseudoColor visuals.  Window
only at this time.

gwolf3d : The gtk+ Version.  Only supports 8bpp visuals, but has a menu that
has a Quit option.  I currently don't really like gtk+; anyone know of a
more complete api reference than the one on http://www.gtk.org?  But I'll
have to use it so I can have menus and dialogs without having to create them
in Xlib.  Any suggestions?

glwolf3d: The OpenGL Version (written using Xlib w/ GLX).  I like it.  Not
all graphics are currently shown, and a few things are still rough.

Note: The available targets (binaries) may change over time as I decide
which APIs work the best, etc.

To build these binaries, type 'make' in the directory with the source... If
you don't want to build a certain binary, edit the Makefile.  On the line
"all: swolf3d xwolf3d gwolf3d glwolf3d" in the Makefile, you can remove the
names of which binaries that you do not wish to build.

Now you should be able to do something like:
./swolf3d <resource file>
and off you go!

Thanks to id Software for allowing me to release this source under the GNU
GPL (see LICENSE) and Bill Heineman (Programmer and Project Lead of the
Macintosh version) for answering my inquiries. 


Steven Fuller <relnev@users.sourceforge.net>

----------------------------
TODO (Stuff to Write About):
Contents:
* About (General)
* How to Compile
* How to Use
* About (More Specific, document how this source is different than original)
* Thanks
* License
* Contact

File Organization:
Some functions were moved to different files to account for functions which
did not exist on some platforms, different rendering systems, etc.
Changes from the orignal source:
...
